Hello Göran,

I've been helping Samuel Butler with his latest article and we've recieved some reviewer comments best answered by NMR, namely what the binding configuration of our transglycosylation products have. I've recieved a lot of help from Monica so far but I have some questions to ask you to see if our reasoning makes sense. We've incubated a "retaining" beta-mannanase with mannotetraose (M4, beta-1,4-bonds) and the transglycosylation acceptor allyl-alcohol. The enzyme cleavs the first, second, or third beta-mannsoyl and (theoretically) forms allyl-M1, allyl-M2, or allyl-M3. Mechanistically a new beta-mannoside bond is formed between the anomeric carbon (C1) and the allyl-group. This is similar to Teze et  al 2021, that you worked on, and and Rosengren 2019. 

So we've set up transglycosylation and hydrolysis reactions, boiled them, freeze dried and replaced the water with D2O and ran 13C HSQC / HMBC for the whole reaction solution. The reviewer wants us to confirm the beta-configuration of the transglycosylation products.

Using HPLC we know that the reaction contains M1, M2, M3, allyl-M1, and allyl-M2.

When we compare our transfer reaction (blue one in 1D spectra) with a hydrolysis control (red one) there are some shifts present (peaks 12 and 13) that are not present when the reaction is incubated without allyl-alcohol.

we've found reference shifts in literature for peak 12 corresponding to the anomeric proton signal from allyl-beta-mannose, and looking at our 2D spectra we can see that it as well as peak 13 are chemically connected to protons on the first carbon in the allyl group (peak 15 and 16).

We're somewhat convinced that the configuration for both of these species is beta by determination of the 3J(H-1,H-2)≈1Hz, and 1J(C-1,H-1)=160Hz coupling constants. Is this sufficient evidence for the configuration being beta?

If that is the case then we've shown that peak 12 and 13 are anomeric proton shifts from allyl-beta-glycosides, and that peak 12 corresponds to a previously reported shift for allyl-beat-mannose, but we're still unsure about peak 13.

We suspect that the peaks is from allyl-beta-M2, is there any way of strengthening this argument? is it reasonable that the shift difference between anomeric shifts from allyl-beta-M1 and allyl-beta-M2 is as high as 0.2ppm? We don't have too much time so we might not have the time for new experiments, I have thought about generating a predicted proton spectrum for allyl-beta-mannobiose and using that as a comparison, what do you think?

It might be sufficient to confirm that all ally-glycosides in our sample, which only contains mannosyle units as a sugar source, are beta-configured to answer the reviewers question. But having some degree of confidence to the identity of peak 13 would be nice I think.

IF you want, we can do a quick meeting otherwise email is fine as well. Thanks for you time!

/S.